<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Language" content="en-us"></meta>
    <title>Ant Task for MSBuild or NAnt</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h2>Ant</h2>

    <h3>Description</h3>

    <p>Runs the <a href="http://ant.apache.org/">Apache Ant</a> build
    tool.</p>

    <p>This archive contains a DLL compiled using Microsoft's .NET
    framework 1.1 that only contains the NAnt task as well as an
    archive that has been compiled using Microsoft's .NET framework
    2.0 that contains the NAnt as well as the MSBuild task to run
    Ant.</p>

    <p>The task and attribute names have been chosen to integrate well
    within the typical patterns of NAnt and MSBuild, i.e. they start
    with lowercase in NAnt and uppercase in MSBuild.  Some parameters
    that have been implemented as nested elements in NAnt are only
    available as attributes in MSBuild - since I didn't manage to
    figure out how to define nested elements in MSBuild.</p>

    <h3>Parameters</h3>
    <table border="1" cellpadding="2" cellspacing="0">
      <tr>
        <td valign="top"><b>Attribute</b></td>
        <td valign="top"><b>Description</b></td>
        <td align="center" valign="top"><b>Required</b></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td valign="top">(a|A)ntHome</td>
        <td valign="top">Where Ant has been installed.</td>
        <td align="center">No - but then the environment variable
        ANT_HOME must have been set correctly.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td valign="top">(b|B)uildFile</td>
        <td valign="top">External build file to invoke Ant on.</td>
        <td align="center">No - defaults to build.xml.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td valign="top">(j|J)avaHome</td>
        <td valign="top">Where Java has been installed.</td>
        <td align="center">No - will fall back to the JAVA_HOME
        environment variable and rely on the PATH environment variable
        if that hasn't been set either.  </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td valign="top">(l|L)ibPath</td>
        <td valign="top">argument to Ant's -lib command line option</td>
        <td align="center">No.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td valign="top">AntTargets</td>
        <td valign="top">comma separated list of target names to
        execute. <em>MSBuild only</em>.</td>
        <td align="center">No.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td valign="top">AntProperties</td>
        <td valign="top">semicolon separated list of
        <code>key=value</code> pairs that define Ant properties.
        <em>MSBuild only</em>.</td>
        <td align="center">No.</td>
      </tr>
    </table>

    <h3>Parameters specified as nested elements - <em>NAnt only</em></h3>
    <h4>antTarget</h4>

    <p><code>antTarget</code> has a single required attribute name -
    specifies a target to be run.</p>

    <h4>antProperty</h4>

    <p><code>antProperty</code> has two required attributes.  name and
    value that specify name and value of a property that is to be
    defined in the Ant invocation.</p>

    <h3>Using</h3>

    <p>Before you can use the task you need to define it.</p>

    <p>NAnt:</p>
<pre>
  &lt;loadtasks assembly="AntTask.dll"/&gt;
</pre>

    <p>MSBuild:</p>
<pre>
  &lt;UsingTask AssemblyFile="AntTask.dll" TaskName="Ant"/&gt;
</pre>

    <h3>Examples</h3>

    <p>Let Ant execute the default target in the file
    <code>build.xml</code> in the current directory - assuming
    ANT_HOME and JAVA_HOME are set correctly.</p>

    <p>NAnt:</p>
<pre>
  &lt;ant/&gt;
</pre>

    <p>MSBuild:</p>
<pre>
  &lt;Ant/&gt;
</pre>

    <p>Let Ant execute the targets foo and bar in the file
    <code>antbuild.xml</code> in the current directory, set the Ant
    property test to the value testvalue - assuming ANT_HOME and
    JAVA_HOME are set correctly.</p>

    <p>NAnt:</p>
<pre>
  &lt;ant buildFile="antbuild.xml"&gt;
    &lt;antTarget name="foo"/&gt;
    &lt;antTarget name="bar"/&gt;
    &lt;antProperty name="test" value="testValue"/&gt;
  &lt;/ant&gt;
</pre>

    <p>MSBuild:</p>
<pre>
  &lt;Ant BuildFile="antbuild.xml" AntTargets="foo,bar" AntProperties="test=testValue"/&gt;
</pre>

    <p>Run the version of Ant installed in
    <code>/usr/local/ant</code>, specify
    <code>/opt/java/antlibs/ant-dotnet.jar</code> as <code>-lib</code>
    argument, use the Java VM installed in
    <code>/opt/java/home</code>.</p>

    <p>NAnt:</p>
<pre>
  &lt;ant antHome="/usr/local/ant"
    libPath="/opt/java/antlibs/ant-dotnet.jar" javaHome="/opt/java/home"/&gt;
</pre>

    <p>MSBuild:</p>
<pre>
  &lt;Ant AntHome="/usr/local/ant"
    LibPath="/opt/java/antlibs/ant-dotnet.jar" JavaHome="/opt/java/home"/&gt;
</pre>

    <hr/>
      <p align="center">Copyright &#169; 2005 Stefan Bodewig. All rights Reserved.</p>
  </body>
</html>